Rohit Kumar
120050028

Primary reference : HONEYBEE NAVIGATION EN ROUTE TO THE GOAL: VISUAL FLIGHT CONTROL AND ODOMETRY; M. V. SRINIVASAN, S. W. ZHANG, M. LEHRER and T. S. COLLETT

The paper demonstrates various experiments that attempt to study how bees use optic flow for their navigational purposes. The author refers it as a visual driven odometer which is robust to variations like the energy consumed during the flight,  wind speed etc. The strategy which is proposed in the paper is that bees attempt to maintain a constant speed of the images of the adjacent walls which is basically maintaining constant angular speed. This helps them to avoid potential collisions by slowing at narrower passages and ensure a safe landing on horizontal surfaces by reducing the speed as they approach it.

The first experiment uses a cubical tunnel like apparatus whose one end contains reward in the form of a sugar solution. The side walls carry a pattern of vertical black and white grating. The grating of one of the walls can be moved towards or away from the reward. When the grating was move towards the reward, the image speed was reduced and the bee moved closer to the moving grating so that it could maintain same image speed for both side walls as appeared from its eyes. Similar situation happened when the grating was moved away from the reward, in which case the bee moved away from the moving grating to achive the same balance of image speed from its eyes.

To strengthen the fact that the bees were indeed measuring and balancing the retinal image speeds in the two eyes inside the tunnel, and were not simply balancing the contrast frequencies produced by successive dark and light bars of grating, the trajectories of the flight were investigated with the two side walls carrying gratings of different spatial periods. The observation that was made in this case was similar to the previous one and they were true irrespective of the grating pattern which includes different contrasts on two walls, different variation of intensities e.g. square wave (abrupt change) and sinusoidal wave (gradual change).

These findings suggest that the bee’s visual system is capable of computing the angular speed of a grating independently of its contrast or spatial-frequency content. This mechanism which measures the speed of the image independently of its geometrical structure is used by bees to navigate through the middle of a gap that can be between two vertical branches of a tree regardless of the textual properties of the bark on the two sides.

When the bees are made to pass a tunnel which is narrow at middle, the bees slow down as they approach the narrowest section of the tunnel and accelerate when the tunnel widens beyond it. It seems that the bees strive to hold the angular velocity of the image on the wall constant, despite the changes in the angular period of the stripes that happens due to the narrowing and widening of the tunnel. This experiment confirms that visual control of flight speed is therefore achieved by monitoring and regulating the apparent motion of the visual panorama using a movement-sensitive mechanism that is capable of measuring the angular velocity of the image.

Analysis of trajectories of bee's landing on horizontal surface reveals that the forward speed of the bee decreases steadily as the bee’s height above the surface decreases and this is approximately proportional to altitude, indicating that the bee is holding the angular velocity of the image of the surface roughly constant as the surface is approached.

The paper draws an important aspect of intelligence from animal behavior and shows experimental results to support this. The visual system of the bee displays a capacity to measure the speed of the image independently of the texture of the image. The extension of this work may provide the neural mechanism for this visual system which can be adapted in advanced robotics.
