Rohit Kumar
120050028

Primary reference : Simultaneous Localisation and Mapping (SLAM); Hugh Durrant-Whyte, Fellow, IEEE, and Tim Bailey

This tutorial introduces Simultaneous Localisation and Mapping(SLAM) which is the process by which a mobile robot can build a consistent map of an unknown environment and at the same time use this map to compute it’s own location. The paper starts with the related work done in this field. Earlier, it was assumed that the estimated errors wouldn't converge and a random walk behavior would be observed. The break-through came with the idea of combining localisation and mapping into a single estimation problem which was indeed convergent.

The standard parameters of a SLAM problem consists of the state vector describing the location and orientation of the vehicle, the control vector which was applied at the previous time step to drive vehicle to the above current state, a vector describing the locations of landmarks which is assumed time invariant and an observation vector describing the observation taken from the vehicle of a particular landmark at a particular time. Apart from these parameters the history of vehicle states, control inputs and observations taken are also used.

Next the paper describes the standard bayesian form of SLAM. Here, the problem is to calculate the joint posterior density of the vehicle state and the landmark locations at each time step. This is computer in a standard two-step recursive process. These computations require an observation model which captures the probability of making a prticular obseravtion, when the landmarks and the vehicle locations are known and a motion model which describes the state transition of the vehicle. The state transition is a Markov process where the next state depends only upon the previous state and the applied control.

The key insight in the SLAM problem is that the errors in landmark locations (difference in estimated and true data) are highly correlated, which practically means that although the absolute locationn is quite uncertain, the relative location between two landmarks may be known with a high accuracy. These correlations estimates increase monotonically as more observations are made.

As the robot moves to a new location and observes a landmark, this allows the estimated location of the robot and landmark to be updated relative to the previous location. This in turn propagates back to update the previous landmark even though this landmark is not seen from the new location. This occurs because the two landmarks are highly correlated (their relative location is well known) from previous measurements. Further, the fact that the same measurement data is used to update these two landmarks makes them more correlated. This has been nicely explained in the paper via the rubber stiffness model where the stiffness descibes the correlation and a displacement in the estimate propagates through the rubber network.

Two solutions are described, the EKF-SLAM (extended Kalman filter) where the representation is in the form of a state space model with Gaussian noise and the solution based on Rao-Blackwellised filter and FastSLAM algorithm where a recursive Monte-Carlo sampling is done on particle filtering. However, the high dimensional state-space makes direct application of particle filtering infeasible. The Rao-Blackwellisation(R-B) technique helps to reduce the sample space. The convergence and the computational effort of these methods are also discussed in the paper.

Finally the implementation aspects of the solutions are discussed. Various open-source softwares and online datasets with their links are also listed. The next part of the tutorial describes more recent works and practical issues, especially in more complex outdoor environments along with the computational, feature extraction and data association.
